Explain how to do arithmetic (#345)
datacarpentry/shell-genomics: episodes/04-redirection.md

Now you can divide this number by four to get the number of sequences in your fastq file.

This can be done using [shell integer arithmetic](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Shell-Arithmetic.html)

```bash
$ echo $((996/4))
```

> or [bc - an arbitrary precsion calculator](https://www.gnu.org/software/bc/manual/html_mono/bc.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, this will do integer division - if you need floating point arithmetic you can use [bc - an arbitrary precision calculator](https://www.gnu.org/software/bc/manual/html_mono/bc.html)
```

```bash
$ echo "996/4" | bc
```

```output
249
```

> 

Reviewer: `bc` is useful but I think I would avoid introducing another tool as there is already a lot for people to take in

Author: Can remove bc. Maybe it is better to use `printf %.3f%% "$((1000 * 996/4))e-3"`
so that some decimal places can be shown?  Integer arithmetic might hide an
error since `echo "$((997/4))"` gives the same answer.

Reviewer: I would probably lean towards keeping what you currently have and adding a note that it only handles integer division. I think the syntax for formatting strings with `printf` might be confusing for people that are new to it, and it would probably need some more explanation than we have space for here
